The third method I want to show is using a central class or object to pass the data.
If you're coming from Angular 2, you might know this as services, this would also be a central part of the
app you can check in places where you need it which holds some task or methods you want to use in your whole
application,
that's basically what we're using now. To do so, I will create a new vue instance in my main.js file
here where I have access to vue and I will store it in a constant which I export.
So here I'll export a constant named, I'll name it eventBus since it will serve as a bus for our events but
you may give it another name and this is a new vue object.
Now I'm not defining any method or something like this because the methods I need already exist on this
by default because they are shipped by vuejs.
So with this bus or with this object set up, I can go to my user edit component and there, I want to import
this,
so I'm importing this from the main.js file and I'm using curly braces, this is ES6 syntax for importing
named exports
and here it's the eventBus.
With this, I can comment out my existing emit method and instead call eventBus $emit because
eventBus is just a vue instance
and again a vue instance has this emit method. Here
I want to emit the same data as the event above but here, the important thing is this is not emitted
on this vue instance here, it's emitted on this eventBus instance.
Now since this is a separate instance, I can go to my user detail component and there, I want to add a
new lifecycle hook, the created hook,
we learned about this in the lifecycle hook lecture in the understanding the vue instance course
module and I'm using ES6 syntax instead of this normal ES5 syntax here to create this created
hook and I want to use this hook because I now want to set up a listener to this event. This listener
should keep running from the beginning of this component on, therefore created is the place where I want to
set it up because the component is now created,
now it's time to register this listener. For that I will need to add the import of the eventBus there
too, like this, then here I can set up eventBus on and this will now listen to events emitted on this
vue instance I created and stored here in the eventBus.
So here I know I want to listen to the age was edited event because this is the name I chose in the
user edit component and I know that I get some data,
this data is always used in the second argument here which is always a callback which should get executed
whenever such an event occurs.
I'm using ES6 syntax with the arrow function here and this callback which will get executed automatically
by vuejs always get the data we pass with the event passed as an argument.
So we always get the data here,
the name is totally up to you,
you can name it data or since I know it will be an age,
I can also name it age. And then here, I can access my existing vue instance with this and set user age, this
prop we're getting passed from outside directly to age.
However in the main.js file, this will not work like this tiny error I just recognized,
we have to put this in front of our vue instance here of course because this is the instance holding
all our components,
therefore we have to create our eventBut before loading all these components
otherwise we won't have access to them because the code here would get executed after that instance,
so the order is important. Now when saving this, we can go back the application and if I now click edit
age, it's updated instantly but important thing is it's not taking the route over the user component
and I can prove this by also printing the age here, age is the name of the property set up here in the
data field and by reloading, we see age is 27
and if I edited here, it stays 27 in the user component but not in the two child components.
This is how you can implement a communication between children without having to take the route using
the parent.
Though that being said, managing state and that is what we're doing here, we're managing the state of
a property across multiple components can quickly get very very complicated, if you got more complex
structures,
use a component in different places, update a property in different places and so on.
To make this simpler, vuejs has a great tool we can use called vue X and we will use it in this
course in a later module where I will dive deeply into that tool and which will show you how easy state
management then becomes.
That being said, for simple to medium sized applications, there's nothing wrong with this approach
and it's perfectly fine to pass data either using these parent to
child chains you saw earlier with custom events and props or by using an eventBus, like this.